# Meta SAM 3D Interactive Viewer

This Project has been made specifically for rendering 3D models generated by Meta's SAM 3D AI model. As part of a separate project, an API was made to
interact with Meta's SAM 3D to mask images and create custom 3D models quickly for later integration into a Unity project for a WPI MQP.
This interactive viewer can take in Gaussian Splats (in the .ply format) and display them with a re-lighting technique outlined by Andrew Chan here : https://andrewkchan.dev/posts/lit-splat.html
This relighting technique uses a bilateral filter to smooth out the surface of the re-lit surface, in addition to sharpening edges based two sigmoid values. The full equation for the Bilateral filter can be found in the article provided by the link.

The mentioned 2D Image-To-3D model API can return these Gaussian Splats AND GLB meshes, so this viewer was made to toggle between the mesh view and the splat view. The user can move around the scene to observe different parts of their models
with more clarity, in addition to rotating the models around and tweaking the properties of the lighting frameworks in real-time. This project is intended for
the WPI Graphics, Simulation, and Aesthetics Course Final Project.

## Additional Instructions / Notes:

This viewer is meant to be used in tandem with the 2D to 3D API made by me to interact with the Meta SAM and SAM 3D libraries. However, running this
API and model generation requires a heavy GPU, and the API is currently used through a cloud GPU with a docker image for testing. So, test models have been provided
so that the tester/grader does not need access to this API to use the viewer and test how it works. Use with the API can be seen in the Demo video, otherwise use the
/testModels directory to implement pre-existing models (the sonic is a really good generation, I recommend using that one).

A refresher of controls:
* WASD - Side to Side Camera Movement
* E/Q - Up-Down Camera Movement
* Arrow Keys - Model translation
* Mouse Drag and Click - Model X-Y Rotation
* Shift Mouse Drag and Click - Locked Z-Axis Rotation
* L - Toggle light
* K - Toggle Shadows
* G - Toggle Mesh glass mode
* 1 - Toggle Diffuse Lighting
* 2 - Toggle Specular Highlights

## For Loading: 
If you get an error in the console saying something like :
Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: NetworkError when attempting to fetch resource
This is likely because of CORS policies which may block the fetch command to get the hat object or something else in the directory. Try opening up the 
file in WebStorm of another IDE first and clicking on the "Chrome" option for opening the project in the browser. This has fixed it on our end usually, but if not you may need to 
setup a local web server using localhost to host the file. 

## Challenges faced during this project:

There were MANY challenges faced for this project, namely the rendering of a splat file. Firstly, there are not many existing loaders for rendering splats, and the ones
that do exist are somewhat heavy to load in for just te purpose of parsing. So to find a method that accurately parsed the splat file was challenging. Additionally, the relighting environment
and splats required the use of WebGL 2.0, which is slightly different than WebGL 1.0, and presented a learning curve and a lot of google searching when things threw errors. However, this allowed for cleaner matrix
handling and built-in functions which were useful notably for the glass reflections for inversion. The splat file re-lighting was hard to figure out until I found Andrew Chan's article which allowed us to
know the techniques to look for during further research, while also being able to reference his equations directly. Implementing the actual geometry for the splat, without relighting, was actually easier than I thought, since it was
just a bunch of primitive quad objects. Furthermore, the frame buffer for the re-lighting was somewhat confusing until I had went over pre/post processing textures in class for blurring.

Also, having both the mesh AND splat models in the same scene was hard to navigate, and required a lot of conditionals all around our javascript and HTML files. Loading the GLB files for the mesh
was much easier since there were existing loaders to use, which I implemented here. There is probably a better way to navigate these conflicting frameworks than making extra shader scripts in the html file, but that was the easiest way
I had found to get around the conflicting environments needed for meshes/splats.

Due to the amount of time it took to navigate some of these issues, some of the features were more rushed than others to meet the rubric accordingly, and if I had more time
I would've liked to implement the actual 2D-to-3D API itself within the HTML so objects could be generated in real time without a separate application.
